[MUSIC]
This lecture, we'll talk about,
we'll complete talking about a server,
generic server.
And then we'll talk about how to make it
a live server, basically a server you want
to stay alive, to continue to do its job
over time, so we'll talk about that.
Sending and receiving.
So in our generic, generic server, its
job is basically to wait for connections.
When it gets one, it accepts it.
It accepts whatever data
comes in on the socket, then,
it takes that and just turns it around.
It sends it back.
Okay, this is a really simple of what
we'll call an echo server, really simple,
just receives a message and then sends
the same thing right back to the client.
So, it's a dumb server, but
you can imagine putting in something
more interesting if you wanted to that
does something, receives the data,
processes it, and sends the result back.
That would be easy, but
we're just doing the generic thing.
So we start off over right here,
you start receiving, doing the receive.
So you have a connection at this point,
and you say conn, and
conn is your connection.
Conn.receive, that receives
the data that you want to receive.
And 1000, the argument to the receive
is the maximum amount of bytes that we
want to receive, we limit it so
that we don't overflow any buffers.
This shouldn't be a problem in Python,
but in a language like C
that could be an issue.
So we do the receive, and information
goes into data then we just turn
it right around and we cay conn.sendall
, so we send the data right back.
So receive is used as receive the data,
send all sends it.
We didn't use send, we used sendall,
just because as we said before,
sendall actually makes sure that the data,
the message is sent, that all the data
is sent, even if there are issues or
it's chopped up into chunks or
something like that.
It all gets sent.
So, we used sendall.
And at the end, after you're done with
sending the data back, the server's
done it's job, so we say okay, now we can
close the connection and close the socket.
And you do them in that order.
So that's sort of a simple
generic server right there.
That's the end of it, any way.
But typically you want a live server.
So a live server is a server that
doesn't just receive one message,
send this response back, do that once and
then go to sleep, an end.
We don't want that usually.
Usually a server is a program that
stays alive for a long period of time.
Waiting for messages, and
it receives a message, it does something,
it sends a response, and waits for
the next one, and it continues.
In fact,
it generally continues that forever.
So here's, here's how we modify
the code slightly to do that.
Basically, it's similar
to what we just saw
except you'll notice this while True loop,
right?
So that's a while True, that's an infinite
loop because True is always True.
So what it does is,
inside the loop it accepts a connection.
So it's waiting for a connection,
it accepts one when one comes in.
It retains the connection and the address.
So the address, we don't actually
need the address right now, but
the connection is key.
Then we call receive on that connection
to receive the data on that connection.
Then if not data, we break.
So the idea there is that if we don't
receive any data on the connection, then
we know that the communication is done and
we can just break out of this whole loop.
But if there is data then
you say conn.sendall(data).
You just do what we want to
do send the response back.
Presumably if it was a more interesting
server it would do processing first
then send the result back.
But we send the data back, and
then we go back into the loop waiting
to accept the next connection.
So, or not the next connection, but
waiting to accept the next message.
And then outside the loop, we close
a connection, and we close a socket.
So, that's just an example of
a live server, how you make it so
it stays alive over a period of time.
And this is much more typical of a server.
Infinite loop and connections
close when no data is received.
So full server programs.
So this is just the whole program
put together, top to bottom,
from all the slides.
You start off, you import, oh,
don't mind the indentation.
The indentation of the two imports is
shifted by one, but un-indent that.
That should be all the way left justified.
So you import the socket and sys.
Socket you import because that
has a socket library in it.
Import sys because sys allows
us to do sys.exit which means
when there's an error,
we need this for error handling.
When there's some error we print
out our error message, and
then we're going to exit.
We don't want to continue doing anything
else because there's been a failure.
So we put sys in there just so
we have that exit function.
And it starts off, we create the sockets,
so mysock = socket,
does socket, and so on.
Create a socket.
Then, inside the first try, we do a bind.
We bind to that socket.
The first argument is empty
because we don't know what IP
address we're going to bind to.
It depends on who's trying
to connect with us.
Once 1234 is just
an arbitrary port number, but
the second argument is a port number.
So, we bind to the socket.
Then we listen on that socket,
mysock.listen.
We listen on the socket,
waiting for a message to come in.
Then we go into our loop that we just saw.
When a message comes in we accept it,
and returning the connection,
we receive data from that connection.
Then if there's some data, if there is
some data, we go and send a response back.
Otherwise we break because
we know we're done.
And we stay in that loop until there
is no data that's received, so
we receive data and data's empty.
Then we break out of that, we close
the connection, and close the socket.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]